WINC-959: [docs] updates CONTRIBUTION.md (#1481)
openshift/windows-machine-config-operator: CONTRIBUTION.md

## Before opening a pull request

Thank you for contributing to the Windows Machine Config Operator!

Before opening a pull request, be sure that your changes have been tested, documented, and checked for style. Once
you think your PR is ready for review, be sure to check that you have

- [Fetched from upstream WMCO](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/using-git/getting-changes-from-a-remote-repository#fetching-changes-from-a-remote-repository)
- [Rebased your changes against your root branch](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/merging-vs-rebasing)
- [Run the tests locally](docs/HACKING.md)
- Linted your changes with ```make lint```
- Ensured error messages are a single line
- Updated relevant documentation if your PR changes user functionality  

### Format your commits

We follow a convention for commit messages that is designed to answer two questions: what changed and why. The
subject line should feature the what and the body of the commit should describe the why.

A good commit message should look like

```
[subsystem] <what changed>
<BLANK LINE> 
<why this change was made>
<BLANK LINE> 
<Footer>
```

A real world example would look like

```

> [docs] Add the Guidelines

Reviewer: Not addressed

> Adds the contribution guidelines. 

Reviewer 2: > We follow a convention for commit messages that is designed to answer two questions: what changed and why

Does this sample commit message follow the convention we doc'd above?

- Ensured error messages are a single line
- Updated relevant documentation if your PR changes user functionality  

### Format of the commit message
### Format your commits

We follow a convention for commit messages that is designed to answer two questions: what changed and why. The
subject line should feature the what and the body of the commit should describe the why.

The format can be described more formally as follows:
A good commit message should look like

```
[subsystem] <what changed>
<BLANK LINE>
<BLANK LINE> 
<why this change was made>
<BLANK LINE>
<footer>
<BLANK LINE> 
<Footer>
```
Example for a sample feature:

A real world example would look like

```
[docs] Add the Guidlines
[docs] Add the Guidelines

Cupcake ipsum dolor sit. Amet tart cheesecake tiramisu chocolate cake topping.
Icing ice cream sweet roll. Biscuit dragée toffee wypas.
Adds the contribution guidelines. 

Follow-up to Id5e7cbb1.
```

The first line is the subject and should be no longer than 50 characters, the second line is always blank, and other
lines should be wrapped at 80 characters. This allows the message to be easier to read on GitHub as well as in various
git tools.

> If it is a bug fix commit, the bug identifier should be mentioned in the commit message as `Fixes OCPBUGS-123` in a separate

Reviewer 2: Usually we put `Fixes #<issue>` in the PR comment even if it is already in the PR title

> If it is a bug fix commit, the bug identifier should be mentioned in the commit message as `Fixes OCPBUGS-123` in a separate

Reviewer: Sure. That will help call it out.

> PR comments should be addressed in new commits. Before final approval, they have to be squashed, and the commit messages

Author: on line 88 in the original document it says 
"  - PR comments should be addressed in new commits. Before final approval, they have to be squashed." 

Should I drop this entirely?

> PR comments should be addressed in new commits. Before final approval, they have to be squashed, and the commit messages

Reviewer: You can. There is no rule that PR comments *should* be addressed in new commits. If folks want to do that, it is fine. Just not a requirement.

must follow the format outlined above.

> If a PR has multiple commits, changes requested should be squashed into the original commit where the change was requested.

Author: I'm getting this from line 89 of the original doc. 
```  - If PR has multiple commits, changes requested should eventually be squashed into the original commit where the  change was requested before cancelling the hold. Each commit in the final PR before merge should pass the tests and be
  usable. (see below)
``` 

Should we make this more clear?

# How to contribute

Windows Machine Config Operator is Apache 2.0 licensed and accepts contributions via GitHub pull requests. This
document outlines some of the conventions on commit message formatting and other resources to help get
contributions into the project.  

## New Contributor guide

> To get an overview of what the WMCO is and does, please take a look at the [README](README.md) first. In order to

Reviewer 3: For readability, I would change to:
To get an overview of what the WMCO does, please take a look at the README.

work with the codebase, you'll need to understand a few basic git concepts. Follow the steps below to set up your
environment to get started.

- [Fork the repository on GitHub.](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo)
- [Clone the forked repository outside your go path](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository)
- [Create a topic branch, branched off of master.](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/using-branches)
- [Make commits of logical units as you work](https://github.com/git-guides/git-commit)

## Before opening a pull request

Thank you for contributing to the Windows Machine Config Operator!

Before opening a pull request, be sure that your changes have been tested, documented, and checked for style. Once
you think your PR is ready for review, be sure to check that you have

> - [fetched from upstream](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/using-git/getting-changes-from-a-remote-repository#fetching-changes-from-a-remote-repository)

Reviewer 3: fetched from upstream->fetched from upstream WMCO

- [Rebased your changes against your root branch](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/merging-vs-rebasing)
- [Run the tests locally](docs/HACKING.md)
- linted your changes with ```make lint```
- ensured error messages are a single line

> - updated relevant documentation if your PR changes user functionality  

Reviewer 3: Be consistent with capitalizing/not capitalizing the bullets - pick one and stick with it

### Format your commits

When making your changes, feel free to use whatever commit system you like, but when it’s time to open the pull request,

> be sure when rebasing that your commits follow the WMCO’s formatting requirements.

Reviewer 3: IMO you can leave this out. I'd rather someone commit correctly the first time.

We follow a convention for commit messages that is designed to answer two questions: what changed and why. The
subject line should feature the what and the body of the commit should describe the why.

A good commit message should look like

```
[subsystem] <what changed>
<BLANK LINE> 
<why this change was made>
<BLANK LINE> 
<Footer>
```

A real world example would look like

```

> [docs] Add the Guidlines

Reviewer 3: Spelling: I know this wasn't you but a good time to fix it

Guidlines->Guidelines

> adds the contribution guidelines for maintaining consistent style across the repo 

Reviewer 3: This line is over 80 chars 

Also, capitalize and add a period like the last example

Follow-up to Id5e7cbb1.
```

The subject should be no longer than 50 characters, and the body should be no longer than 80 characters. There are some
[githooks](https://github.com/jorisroovers/gitlint) you can install that can help enforce these style requirements.

## Opening a pull request

Once you are done with the pre-PR checklist, push your changes and create a pull request!

### Format of the pull request

#### Title

When creating your pull request, you should prefix it with the jira issue, followed by the subsystem name in brackets. It
should follow the format

```WINC-<number>: [<subsystem>] <title>```

For example, a docs PR would look like

```WINC-959: [docs] reorganizes readme```

In doing this, you’ll be linking your PR to the jira ticket for tracking.

> In the case of bug fix PRs, this will aslso automatically transition the associated jira bug.

Reviewer 3: aslso->also

- Opening the PR: `ASSIGNED` --> `POST`
- PR merges: `POST` --> `MODIFIED`
- `MODIFIED` to the `ON_QA` transition will have to be done manually by the PR author.
- PR closes without merging, the Jira bug transitions back to NEW status.

#### Comment

Your comment has no specific style requirements, but should be a succinct description of what your change does.

### Open as draft

The WMCO team opens pull requests as drafts before they are reviewed in order to prevent the tests from running right away
and wasting resources. When you’re opening your pull request, select the arrow next to the create pull request button and
click “create draft pull request”.

## Merging a pull request

> Once your PR is open, you'll need at least two reviewers to get it merged.

Reviewer 3: Mention that one /approve and one lgtm is needed

### Respond to comments

PR comments should be addressed in new commits. Before final approval, they have to be squashed, and the commit messages
must follow the format outlined above.
If a PR has multiple commits, changes requested should be squashed into the original commit where the change was requested.

### Moving your PR out of draft

> once you've gotten an LGTM on your PR, you are free to move it out of draft status by clicking the "ready for review" button

Reviewer 3: Capitalize once

in your PR interface. This will let your tests start running, and if they pass, your PR will merge automatically.

### Respond to failing tests

> if your PR is experiencing a test failure that you believe to be a flake, feel free to run a retest.

Reviewer 3: Capitalize if

Windows Machine Config Operator is Apache 2.0 licensed and accepts contributions via GitHub pull requests. This
document outlines some of the conventions on commit message formatting and other resources to help get contributions into the project.  

## New Contributor guide 

> To get an overview of what the MCO is and does, please take a look at the [README](README.md) first. In order to work with the codebase, you'll need to understand a few basic git concepts. Follow the steps below to set up your environment to get started. 

Reviewer 2: WMCO not MCO :)

Before opening a pull request, be sure that your changes have been tested, documented, and checked for style. Once you think your PR is ready for review, be sure to check that you have 

- [fetched from upstream](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/using-git/getting-changes-from-a-remote-repository#fetching-changes-from-a-remote-repository)
- [Rebased your changes against your root branch](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/merging-vs-rebasing)
- [Run the tests locally](docs/HACKING.md)
- linted your changes with ```make lint```
- ensured error messages are a single line 
- updated relevant documentation if your PR changes user functionality  

### Format your commits 
When making your changes, feel free to use whatever commit system you like, but when it’s time to open the pull request, be sure when rebasing that your commits follow the WMCO’s formatting requirements.

We follow a convention for commit messages that is designed to answer two questions: what changed and why. The
subject line should feature the what and the body of the commit should describe the why.

A good commit message should look like 
```
[subsystem] <what changed>

> 

Reviewer 2: IMO we can leave the `<BLANK LINE>` call outs

Reviewer 3: +1

<why this change was made>

<Footer>
```

A real world example would look like 
```
[docs] Add the Guidlines

adds the contribution guidelines for maintaining consistent style across the repo 

Follow-up to Id5e7cbb1.
```
The subject should be no longer than 50 characters, and the body should be no longer than 80 characters. There are some [githooks](https://github.com/jorisroovers/gitlint) you can install that can help enforce these style requirements.

> If it is a bug fix commit, the bug identifier should be mentioned in the commit message as `Fixes OCPBUGS-123` in a separate

Reviewer 2: Is this still accurate? I thought we moved away from this since it messes with the OCPBUGS jira integration

Reviewer 4: Correct, `Fixes OCPBUGS-123` should not be in the commit message.

Reviewer: I thought what should not be doing is adding `OCPBUGS-123:` as prefix to the commit message. But if we should not be adding `Fixes` to the commit message but only to the PR message, then we should clearly call that out.

line.

## Opening a pull request 
Once you are done with the pre-PR checklist, push your changes and create a pull request! 

### Format of the pull request 
#### Title 
When creating your pull request, you should prefix it with the jira issue, followed by the subsystem name in brackets. It should follow the format

> ```WINC-<number>: [<subsystem>] <title>```

Reviewer 2: What about bug fixes?

Reviewer: This has not been addressed.

Author: https://github.com/openshift/windows-machine-config-operator/pull/1481/files#diff-0c8a93902edcf8795d61d5e98dc43d4ecd8645f4a924e67c080a70f364edc78eR87 

should it be more direct than it being here ? 
It makes sense to put all of the bugfix information in one place.

Reviewer: `WINC/OCPBUGS-<number>` will suffice here.

guidelines and reorganize it to bring it up to date.

Follow-up to Id5e7cbb1.
```

The subject should be no longer than 50 characters, and the body should be no longer than 80 characters. There are some
[githooks](https://github.com/jorisroovers/gitlint) you can install that can help enforce these style requirements.

## Opening a pull request

Once you are done with the pre-PR checklist, push your changes and create a pull request!

### Format of the pull request

#### Title

When creating your pull request, you should prefix it with the Jira issue, followed by the subsystem name in brackets. It
should follow the format

```WINC-<number>: [<subsystem>] <title>```

For example, a docs PR would look like

```WINC-959: [docs] reorganizes readme```

In doing this, you’ll be linking your PR to the Jira ticket for tracking.

In the case of bug fix PRs, this will also automatically transition the associated Jira bug.

- Opening the PR: `ASSIGNED` --> `POST`
- PR merges: `POST` --> `MODIFIED`
- `MODIFIED` to the `ON_QA` transition will have to be done manually by the PR author.
- PR closes without merging, the Jira bug transitions back to NEW status.

> If you have no Jira issue or are not a Red Hat employee, your title should simply follow the format ```[<subsystem>] <title>```, with ```Fixes #<issue>``` in the comment. 

Reviewer: Long line.

There is potential there could be PR that does not fixes any issue. So `Fixes #<issue>` is only when required.

### Open as draft

The WMCO team opens pull requests as drafts before they are reviewed in order to prevent the tests from running right away

> [Open your PR as a draft](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request) before requesting reviews.

Reviewer: Please move `before requesting reviews` to the next line.

## Merging a pull request

Once your PR is open, you'll need at least two reviewers te get it merged.

### Moving your PR out of draft

Before moving your PR out of draft, you must have at least one /lgtm and one /approve on the PR.
Once you have both, you are free to move it out of draft status by clicking the "ready for review" button
in your PR interface. This will let your tests start running, and if they pass, your PR will merge automatically.

### Respond to failing tests

If your PR is experiencing a test failure that you believe to be a flake, feel free to run a retest.
When retesting, be sure to add a link to the failing test, and a snippet of what caused the failure.
The format should be

```
/retest-required

<explanation of the error>
<reason for retest>
<prow.ci.openshift.org link> 

> ```<log snippet of the failure> ```

Reviewer: Why do you need extra ticks here? Just `<log snippet of the failure>` will suffice.

```

Once your tests are passing, and your PR has an approval and a LGTM label, the CI should merge it automatically.

![Sample PR life-cycle](/images/PR-workflow.png)

## Backporting changes

> Things like bugfixes should be backported to all [supported versions](https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/openshift#windows).

Reviewer: Please remove `Things like`. And what about the non-bugfix case? That needs to be mentioned here also. With non-bugfix PRs, backports can be done from the main PR to the appropriate branches. There is not rule as such regarding which branch to pick and will depend on the PR.

Once your bugfix is merged, go to the merged PR and comment 

> ```/cherrypick <release>``` 

Reviewer: Just a single tick will suffice here and elsewhere.

to trigger the openshift-cherrypick-robot and create an automated backport.
If you have multiple versions you need to backport to, go to each generated backport and run the 
```/cherrypick <release>``` on that instead of master. This ensures the Jira work stays tracked properly. 

If for example your PR to master needed to be backported to 4.11, 4.10, and 4.9, you would create an automatic
backport against 4.11, go to that generated backport, and from there run ```/cherrypick 4.10```. Then, from 
your 4.10 backport you would generate a backport for 4.9. 

> If the cherry pick bot fails, you will have to make your cherry picks manually.

Reviewer: And execute the `/jira cherrypick OCBUGS-nnnn` command in manual PR to create the Jira associations..

<BLANK LINE>
<why this change was made>
<BLANK LINE>
<Footer>
```

A real world example would look like

```
[docs] Add the guidelines

The contribution guidelines were not aligned with current practices. Update the
guidelines and reorganize it to bring it up to date.

Follow-up to Id5e7cbb1.
```

The subject should be no longer than 50 characters, and the body should be no longer than 80 characters. There are some
[githooks](https://github.com/jorisroovers/gitlint) you can install that can help enforce these style requirements.

## Opening a pull request

Once you are done with the pre-PR checklist, push your changes and create a pull request!

### Format of the pull request

#### Title

When creating your pull request, you should prefix it with the Jira issue, followed by the subsystem name in brackets. It
should follow the format

> ```WINC/OCPBUGS-<number>: [<subsystem>] <title>```

Reviewer 2: nit: consider `WINC|OCPBUGS`

before requesting reviews.

## Merging a pull request

Once your PR is open, you'll need at least two reviewers te get it merged.

### Moving your PR out of draft

Before moving your PR out of draft, you must have at least one /lgtm and one /approve on the PR.
Once you have both, you are free to move it out of draft status by clicking the "ready for review" button
in your PR interface. This will let your tests start running, and if they pass, your PR will merge automatically.

### Respond to failing tests

If your PR is experiencing a test failure that you believe to be a flake, feel free to run a retest.
When retesting, be sure to add a link to the failing test, and a snippet of what caused the failure.
The format should be

```
/retest-required

<explanation of the error>
<reason for retest>
<prow.ci.openshift.org link>

<log snippet of the failure>
```

Once your tests are passing, and your PR has an approval and a LGTM label, the CI should merge it automatically.

![Sample PR life-cycle](/images/PR-workflow.png)

## Backports

> when backporting changes, use the openshift-cherrypick-robot whenever possible to auto-generate backports.

Reviewer: `When`

> Once your PR has merged, go to the PR and comment `/cherry-pick <release>`. with whatever [supported](https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/openshift#windows)

Reviewer: There is a stray `.` here.
```suggestion
Once your PR has merged, go to the PR and comment `/cherry-pick <release>` for the
[supported](https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/openshift#windows)
releases you want to backport to
```

<BLANK LINE>
<why this change was made>
<BLANK LINE>
<Footer>
```

A real world example would look like

```
[docs] Add the Guidelines

> Contribution guidelines out of date and no longer reflected current practices.

Reviewer: This is just a statement. What are you doing to fix it? IOW, the example should follow the guidelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The contribution guidelines were not aligned with current practices. Update the
guidelines and reorganize it to bring it up to date.
```

[githooks](https://github.com/jorisroovers/gitlint) you can install that can help enforce these style requirements.

## Opening a pull request

Once you are done with the pre-PR checklist, push your changes and create a pull request!

### Format of the pull request

#### Title

When creating your pull request, you should prefix it with the Jira issue, followed by the subsystem name in brackets. It
should follow the format

```WINC-<number>: [<subsystem>] <title>```

For example, a docs PR would look like

```WINC-959: [docs] reorganizes readme```

In doing this, you’ll be linking your PR to the Jira ticket for tracking.

In the case of bug fix PRs, this will also automatically transition the associated Jira bug.

- Opening the PR: `ASSIGNED` --> `POST`
- PR merges: `POST` --> `MODIFIED`
- `MODIFIED` to the `ON_QA` transition will have to be done manually by the PR author.
- PR closes without merging, the Jira bug transitions back to NEW status.

If you have no Jira issue or are not a Red Hat employee, your title should simply follow the format ```[<subsystem>] <title>```
#### Comment

> Your comment has no specific style requirements, but should be a succinct description of what your change does.

Reviewer: Maybe add `Fixes #issue_nr/Jira bug` ?

Author: If you have no Jira issue or are not a Red Hat employee, your title should simply follow the format ```<Issue Number>: [<subsystem>] <title>```

like this ?

Reviewer: No it would just be `[<subsystem>] <title>`. The body will have `Fixes #issue_nr`.

Author: how about this 
```
If you have no Jira issue or are not a Red Hat employee, your title should simply follow the format ```[<subsystem>] <title>```, with ```Fixes #<issue>``` in the comment.
```

Reviewer: Works for me.

## Merging a pull request

Once your PR is open, you'll need at least two reviewers te get it merged.

### Respond to comments

PR comments should be addressed in new commits. Before final approval, they have to be squashed, and the commit messages
must follow the format outlined above.
If a PR has multiple commits, changes requested should be squashed into the original commit where the change was requested.

### Moving your PR out of draft

Before moving your PR out of draft, you must have at least one /lgtm and one /approve on the PR.
Once you have both, you are free to move it out of draft status by clicking the "ready for review" button
in your PR interface. This will let your tests start running, and if they pass, your PR will merge automatically.

### Respond to failing tests

If your PR is experiencing a test failure that you believe to be a flake, feel free to run a retest.
When retesting, be sure to add a link to the failing test, and a snippet of what caused the failure.
The format should be

```
/retest-required

<explanation of the error>
<reason for retest>
<prow.ci.openshift.org link> 

> ```<code snippet of the failure> ```

Reviewer: Just `snippet` will suffice as we are posting a log and not any code.

Author: maybe "log snippet" ?

Reviewer: Sure.
